===============================
SEP 2 — Nomenclature guidelines
===============================

:Authors: Klemen Zaletelj <klemen.zaletelj@fs.uni-lj.si>, Janko Slavič <janko.slavic@fs.uni-lj.si>
:Status: Draft
:Type: Process
:Created: 2021-03-15


Abstract
--------

The nomenclature guidelines for SDyPy are presented for better interoperability
of the packages/modules.

Motivation
----------

The nomenclature is often not consistent for different packages which affects the
user experience when combining the use of multiple packages.

Detailed description
--------------------

SDyPy nomenclature follows the python guidelines, presented in 
`PEP 8 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_.

General guidelines
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* As is stated in `PEP 8 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_, the code is read 
  much more often than it is written. The names of the variables should therefore
  be as descriptive as possible.
  Examples:

  .. code:: python
  
     a = 4 # Not good

     rectangle_height = 4 # Good

  With most code editors enabling the use of autocomplete, the length of the variables does not present
  a major issue for code writing.

* When combining multiple words into a variable name, the term with a broader meaning should
  be on the first place. The more defining term comes next. This improves the readability of the code,
  enabling the reader to immediately understand what the main purpose of the variable is.  Examples:

  .. code:: python

     freq_upper
     freq_lower
     damping_viscous
     damping_hysteretic

  It should be said, that the it is up to the user to determine what is the more broader term.

Common variables in structural dynamics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Despite the general guidelines written above, the variables which are broadly used in structural dynamics 
can be an exception to the general guidelines. To avoid different variable names (e.g. sampling_frequency, 
freq_sampling), the conventions given below should be used.

* Sampling frequency: ``fs``
   * This name is not descriptive; however, it is commonly used in other packages 
     (e.g. `scipy <https://www.scipy.org/scipylib/index.html>`_)
   * Unit: [Hz]
* Time step: ``dt``
   * Unit: [s]
* Natural frequency: ``natural_freq``
   * Unit: [Hz]
* Frequency vector: ``freq``
   * Unit: [Hz]
* Frequency vector in rad/s: ``freq_rad``
   * Unit: [rad/s]
* Frequency Response Function: ``frf``
   * Different forms of the frequency response function are possible (receptance, mobility, accelerance) and
     can be given other names. When the frequency response function is referenced in arbitrary form, this variable
     name should be given.
* Frequency limits: ``freq_upper``, ``freq_lower``


Discussion
----------

This section may just be a bullet list including links to any discussions
regarding the SEP:

- This includes links to mailing list threads or relevant GitHub issues.


References and Footnotes
------------------------

.. [1] Each SEP must either be explicitly labeled as placed in the public domain (see
   this SEP as an example) or licensed under the `Open Publication License`_.

.. _Open Publication License: https://www.opencontent.org/openpub/


Copyright
---------

This document has been placed in the public domain. [1]_
