==========================================
SEP 1 — Integration of packages into SDyPy
==========================================

:Authors: Janko Slavič <janko.slavic@fs.uni-lj.si>, Klemen Zaletelj <klemen.zaletelj@fs.uni-lj.si>
:Status: Draft
:Type: Process
:Created: 2021-02-11


Abstract
--------
A four level scale of integration of a package into SDyPy is proposed to enable
the connectivity of the existing projects. The levels differ in consistency of
nomenclature with SDyPy, developed documentation and testing. The levels 
of integration enable quick association of a project with SDyPy, without
extended efforts from the developers. Higher levels of integration can be achieved
by developing the project in agreement with SDyPy guidelines.

Motivation
----------
The SDyPy project was created to unify the effort in structural dynamics and 
associate the relevant projects; however, the existing packages were developed 
independently, with various degrees of compatibility. To minimize the efforts
of the developers, the four levels of integration are proposed, enabling
the developers to choose the level of the desired independency of their project
and level of integration into SDyPy.

Detailed description
--------------------
The four levels of integration:

- **4th level**:
   - External packages dealing with structural dynamics, listed as related projects,
   - These packages are developed completely independently but might be useful for 3rd, 2nd and 1st level packages.
   
- **3rd level**:
   - Testing and documentation corresponds to the SDyPy template,
   - Package has an MIT or similar licence which enables free use for any purpose (incl. commercial),
   - PIP supported installation (wheels),
   - This packages are installed with SDyPy.
   
   
- **2nd level**, all of 3rd level, but additionally:
   - Automatic tests of interoperability to other 1st and 2nd level packages are prepared, 
   - Corresponds to nomenclature guidelines of SDyPy,
   - Package has the same licence as SDyPy.
   - This packages are imported into SDyPy namespace, 
   - Packages are still developed in a separate repository,

- **1st level**, all of 2nd level, but additionally:
   - These packages are developed in the SDyPy repository, 

Discussion
----------

This section may just be a bullet list including links to any discussions
regarding the SEP:

- This includes links to mailing list threads or relevant GitHub issues.


References and Footnotes
------------------------

.. [1] Each SEP must either be explicitly labeled as placed in the public domain (see
   this SEP as an example) or licensed under the `Open Publication License`_.

.. _Open Publication License: https://www.opencontent.org/openpub/


Copyright
---------

This document has been placed in the public domain. [1]_
