===================================================
SEP 3 — Including packages into the SDyPy namespace 
===================================================

:Authors: Domen Gorjup <domen.gorjup@fs.uni-lj.si>, Janko Slavič <janko.slavic@fs.uni-lj.si>
:Status: Draft
:Type: Process
:Created: 2021-03-25


Abstract
--------
SDyPy uses Python's namespace package mechanism to include packages with a
high level of integration into its namespace while allowing for an independently
development processes. The use of namespace packages in SDyPy is described in
this document.

Motivation
----------
As SDyPy aims to integrate multiple open-source Python packages in the
structural dynamics field to provide a coherent workflow, it may be beneficial
to include some packages into the SDyPy namespace. However, it is reasonable
that some of these packages keep a high level of independence in their
development and distribution (e.g. their repositories with a wealth of existing
resources, issues and commit histories...). To achieve this, Python's namespace
package mechanism is used.

Detailed description
--------------------
The four levels of integration, described in `SEP1 <./sep-0001.rst>`_, define
two types of packages that are included in the SDyPy namespace, but are
developed in independent repositories:

- **2nd level** packages are namespace packages with a high level of integration 
  with SDyPy, that are developed by a separate organization.
- **1st level** packages are hosted by the `SDyPy organization`_, but can be 
  developed in a repository, separate from the `core SDyPy package`_.

To integrate these two types of packages into the SDyPy namespace, Python's
`namespace package`_ mechanism is used.
A native support for namespace packages has been introduced with Python 3.3 and
is defined by `PEP 420`_. When a package has reached a high level of integration
with SDyPy, it can be included into the SDyPy namespace by adhering to Python's
namespace package file structure ::

   example_project/
      setup.py
      SDyPy/
         example_project/
            __init__.py

As stated in Python's `namespace package documentation`_, it is important
that the namespace directory (`SDyPy/`) omits an `__init__.py` file.
It is also necessary to alter an existing package's setup script to adhere to
the changed file structure.

When a package, developed by a separate organization is defined to be part of
the SDyPy namespace, as shown in the above example, it becomes a Level 2
SDyPy package. If it's ownership is also transferred to the
SDyPy organization it becomes a Level 1 SDyPy package.

SDyPy packages should follow the The Zen of Python, presented in 
`PEP 20 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/>`_.

The umbrella package and the lazy facade
----------------------------------------

The core ``sdypy`` distribution provides the only ``sdypy/__init__.py`` in the
namespace and acts as a lightweight *lazy facade*. It exposes each first-level
sub-package (``EMA``, ``io``, ``FRF``, ``excitation``, ``model``, ``view``) as an
attribute via PEP 562 module ``__getattr__`` - importing the sub-package only on
first access - and provides ``__version__`` from the installed distribution
metadata. It keeps the package a namespace-compatible portion (via
``pkgutil.extend_path``) so the sibling portions still contribute.

All other packages contributing to the ``sdypy`` namespace MUST be native
`PEP 420`_ portions and MUST NOT ship a top-level ``sdypy/__init__.py``. This
keeps the umbrella's ``__init__.py`` the single owner of the namespace root, so
sub-package discovery and lazy attribute resolution are deterministic regardless
of ``sys.path`` order, and it reconciles the README's documented ``sd.EMA`` usage
with the native-namespace requirement described above.


Discussion
----------

This section may just be a bullet list including links to any discussions
regarding the SEP:

- This includes links to mailing list threads or relevant GitHub issues.


References and Footnotes
------------------------

.. [1] Each SEP must either be explicitly labeled as placed in the public domain (see
   this SEP as an example) or licensed under the `Open Publication License`_.

.. _Open Publication License: https://www.opencontent.org/openpub/

.. _SDyPy organization: https://github.com/sdypy

.. _core SDyPy pacakge: https://github.com/sdypy/sdypy

.. _namespace package: https://packaging.python.org/guides/packaging-namespace-packages/

.. _PEP 420: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0420/

.. _namespace package documentation: https://packaging.python.org/guides/packaging-namespace-packages/#native-namespace-packages

Copyright
---------

This document has been placed in the public domain. [1]_
